The road behind me has been closed. There has been a landslide ...
... and that is a problem because this is pretty much the only way that the village of Kelston ...
... and in addition, a dozen others connects with the picturesque ...
... town of Bath. There is a detour, but that is more than 22 kilometers,
and the municipality can not re-open this road for a few months.
There is a solution, an amazing one.
This is the Kelston toll road,
and this one has not been placed here by the church, but by, well ... this man.
MIKE: We were in the local pub one night and the road was closed for about three months.
We spoke to a local farmer who owns land here.
My wife thought he just had to throw some vowels and maybe ...
... a toll gate so that he could collect toll from people who drove over it.
We were enthusiastic. We prepared the ground and laid the road. Without a zoning plan.
TOM: As you already expected, the municipality was not very happy at first,
but this is the fun: Mike did not break any law.
In the United Kingdom -in America you would violate the zoning laws-,
but in the United Kingdom building without a zoning plan is not a crime in itself.
You only violate the law if the government notices it, imposes an ultimatum ...
... and you then refuse to undo your actions.
MIKE: We thought they would say, "All right, go on,
this is fine, you have our support. "
They did not, however. We even had to apply for permission with retroactive effect.
TOM: And there were good reasons for that.
The municipality stated that they were not sure whether the construction ...
... of the road and driving over it might have an impact on the landslide.
It seems that they have taken the risk and it has paid off.
Note: they are not the only ones who have taken a reasonable risk with this route.
MIKE: My wife and I have a little house in Kelston near the river.
We built our house there to convince the road builders that we wanted to build the road,
and if it did not work, we would sell the house and pay them with the money. That was the only way.
They are from a local company, they agreed.
We shook hands and sent three men who have laid the road in ten days.
150,000 passing cars are needed before we have recovered our investment, but we are ...
... well on the way, we are already at 100,000. The reaction of the people is ...
... was amazing.
TOM: The road has even reached Google Maps.
Please, the Kelston toll road.
Something you might not have known, not only because of its existence,
but also because it is still in use. It seems that this will remain the same for several months.
Translation: Stefan van Rijswijk